---
layout: post
title: Official BLT 9.1.0 Released!
---

BLT 9.1.0 has been officially released! The alpha1 version was released about 6 weeks ago and since then we've added numerous improvements. Read the [full 9.1 changelog](https://github.com/acquia/blt/compare/9.0.5...9.1.0) for a comprehensive list of changes.

## Notable changes
### PHP

BLT 9.1.0 defaults to PHP 7.1 rather than 5.6 to resolve issues caused by using different versions of PHP on host and guest machines. 

### Drush

BLT 9 requires Drush 9. If you are upgrading from BLT 8.9.x (which required Drush 8), BLT will automatically update the package-local version of Drush. BLT 9.1.0 updates Drush to 9.3.0.

Note that if you previously used the ACSF Tools Drush library in your Drush 8 project, it is not yet ported to Drush 9 so has been removed from BLT. 


### DrupalVM

* While not required, users can update to the newest DrupalVM 4.9.0 version which improves compatibility with Ansible 2.4, 2.5 and beyond, and updates almost every Ansible role in Drupal VM. To update DrupalVM separately from BLT execute the following:

```

vagrant halt
composer update --with-dependencies geerlingguy/drupal-vm
vagrant up --provision

```

Note that this does not update your VM configuration at box/config.yml with the tempates in DrupalVM or BLT. To ensure these updates are applied, re-create your VM after removing the existing configuration:

```
blt recipes:drupalvm:destroy && blt recipes:drupalvm:init
```

Any customizations to box/config.yml will need to be re-added. 


### Multisite & Site Factory (ACSF)

#### Site-specific BLT config

There is improved support for site-specific BLT configuration which can be defined in a `docroot/sites/[site]/blt.yml` file. You may also define site-specific drush configuration in `docroot/sites/[site]/drush.yml`, and local-only per-site drush configuration in `docroot/sites/[site]/local.drush.yml`. 



#### Acquia Cloud Site Factory

The ACSF module has been updated to the latest release which required Drush 9. All default ACSF hooks have been updated in accordance with new best practices. A `post-sites-php` hook has been added which provides a global `$acsf_site_name` variable for use in other tasks. To leverage these updates, remove your existing BLT-provided `factory-hooks` and re-run BLT ACSF integration tasks: 

```
rm -rf factory-hooks && blt acsf
```

*Note:* If you are using custom Factory Hooks or overriding BLT-provided templates, the above may remove your customizations. You will need to add these files back to your project. 

#### ACSF Deployments and Code Updates

The `post-install` and `update-db` Factory Hooks now execute BLT `drupal:update` commands automatically when invoked in ACSF in code update, code deploy, Factory staging, and site creation tasks.

#### Multisite recipes:multisite:init

If you use the `blt recipes:multisite:init` command to create a multisite, your Drupal VM configuration will be automatically updated with a new virtual host entry for that multisite.

`blt recipes:multisite:init` will create a new `docroot/sites/[site]` dir containing all suggested config files. It will also create a new drush alias in `drush/sites/[site].site.yml`, a new config directory for per-site config at `config/sites/[site]`, and set the mysql_user array when you supply new multisite database credentials.

To create the required databases and hosts in your virtal machine, you must re-provision the VM by either `vagrant up --provision` or `vagrant reload --provision`.